Add enhacement for bootstral kubelet ip (#1)
tsorya/enhancements: enhancements/baremetal/bootstrap-kubelet-ip.md

---
title: bootstrap-kubelet-ip
authors:
  - "@tsorya"
reviewers:
  - "@hardys"
  - "@dtantsur"
  - "@dhellmann"
  - "@patrickdillon"
approvers:
  - "@hardys"
  - "@dtantsur"
  - "@dhellmann"
  - "@patrickdillon"
api-approvers:
  - None
creation-date: 2022-03-23
last-updated: 2022-03-23
tracking-link:
  - https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MGMT-11102
see-also:
  - https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2070318
replaces:
superseded-by:
---

# Bootstrap External IP

## Summary

> When installing a new cluster with assisted-installer, you can set machine networks that will 

Reviewer: useing UPI or assisted-installer

> be set to `networkConfig` field in the `install-config.yaml` file to configure the control plane network

Reviewer: Consider adding what the machine network is used for..
on the nic connected to this network OCP will build the ovs bridge and  all traffic between the nodes will be on this network.

> interfaces for the cluster hosts.  However, currently, you cannot configure 
> the bootstrap machine network using the same means.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interfaces for the cluster hosts.  However, users cannot configure 
the machine network for the bootstrap node.
```

## Motivation

> 

Reviewer: Here you should describe the problem they had in the BZ linked above

In environments where bootstrap machine has more than one ip address, we should be able to set which ip that 
will be configured as a hostIp in kubelet. This ip will be used in bootstrap kube-api service as advertised ip.

> The user can work around this by modifying the bootstrap ignition file; however,
> this isn't a friendly experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user can work around this by modifying the bootstrap ignition file; however,
this isn't a friendly experience.
```
Don't mention it here, instead move it to alternatives

### User Stories

- As a user, I want to be able to specify host ip address for bootstrap machine

### Goals

- Support cluster installation in environments with bootstrap machine with more than one ip configured
- Improve the level of customization of bootstrap networking

> - Improve user-friendliness when specifying a IP for the bootstrap

Reviewer: remove this

> - Improve user-friendliness when specifying a IP for the bootstrap

Reviewer: Remove this

### Non-Goals

- Provide means for configuring every aspect of bootstrap networking

## Proposal

> We will add a new fields, `bootstrapNodeIP` to allow for further customization of

Reviewer: I think this should be a subnet and not a specific IP.

Author: then it will require to run nodeip-configuration, kubelet doesn't know what is subnet, it requires ip. In case of setting subnet change will be much more complicated

Author: will add it as alternative

> We will add a new fields, `bootstrapNodeIP` to allow for further customization of

Reviewer 2: New fields where?

Author: > How is this related / different / affects [openshift#1179](https://github.com/openshift/enhancements/pull/1179) ?

Bootstrap is different.  Nodeip is script is not part of Bootstrap flow

Author: The enhancement that you pointed to is another part of making openshift network predictable. We  will need both

Reviewer 2: >Bootstrap is different. Nodeip is script is not part of Bootstrap flow

But still, maybe the same configuration can be used to affect both ? (I may be way off, I don't completely understand the problem yet)

Author: We already added an option to os env for this but installer team asked for enhancement to set it in install config

Reviewer 2: I'm not arguing against putting it in the install-config, I'm saying maybe the install config var should have a more generic name so it can be used to affect IP selection for more than just the bootstrap, in the future

> We will add a new fields, `bootstrapNodeIP` to allow for further customization of

Reviewer 2: Should `bootstrapNodeIP` perhaps be more generic (i.e. not just for bootstrap) and indirectly set the environment in  https://github.com/openshift/enhancements/pull/1179 ?

Author: Don't think so. The only other alternative  is to create some script that will read install config and set kubelet ip from machine cidr. It will require such script to be part of installer and somehow be brought with bootstrap ignition. I am not sure it is worth to complicate it but let's see it on broader discussion

> We will add a new fields, `bootstrapNodeIP` to allow for further customization of

Reviewer 2: why plural "fields"? (I assume because you want to put it in both none and metal, but it's not currently clear from the text)

> bootstrap host ip that should be used for kubelet configuration. We will use this field to set BootstrapNodeIP field in 

Reviewer 2: line incomplete

### Workflow Description

The **cluster creator** will modify the `install-config.yaml` to configure
static networking for the bootstrap node.

### API Extensions

We will add a new field to the baremetal and None platform sections of the

> `install-config.yaml` file called `bootstrapNodeIP`. This is similar to the existing

Reviewer 2: Similar in what way? what's different about them?

considered less than ideal.

## Design Details

### Test Plan

Assisted-installer tests, in each e2e scenario will test this field

### Graduation Criteria

#### Dev Preview -> Tech Preview

- Ability to utilize the enhancement end to end
- End user documentation, relative API stability
- Sufficient test coverage
- Gather feedback from users rather than just developers
- Enumerate service level indicators (SLIs), expose SLIs as metrics
- Write symptoms-based alerts for the component(s)

#### Tech Preview -> GA

- More testing (upgrade, downgrade, scale)
- Sufficient time for feedback
- Available by default
- Backhaul SLI telemetry
- Document SLOs for the component
- Conduct load testing
- User facing documentation created in [openshift-docs](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/)

**For non-optional features moving to GA, the graduation criteria must include
end to end tests.**

#### Removing a deprecated feature

### Upgrade / Downgrade Strategy

### Version Skew Strategy

### Operational Aspects of API Extensions

#### Failure Modes

#### Support Procedures

## Implementation History

N/A

## Alternatives

> We can document the specific scenario, and offer the ignition-based workaround

Reviewer 2: What is the ignition based workaround?

Author: Override ignition

Reviewer 2: I'm asking because it's not clear from the text what are you referring to exactly (especially because you use the word "the", it sounds like you're referring to something particular the reader should know about, but I don't know what it is)

Reviewer 2: Maybe instead of `the` you meant `an`, but regardless an example / some details would be nice
